.TH freightctl "1" "Apr 2015" "Neil Horman"
.SH NAME
freightctl \- Control utility to manage freight-agent database 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfrieghtctl [options] <operation>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B freightctl
Is a command and control utility to manipulate the database for a freight-agent
cluster.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB freightctl [OPTIONS] 
.TP
.B -h | --help
Display options and usage for the daemon 
.TP
.B -c | --config </path/to/config/file>
Specify the config file to use with freight-agent (defaults to
.TP
.B -v | --verbose
Verbose output

.SH COMMANDS
.B host [add|del] <hostname>
Adds or removes a host from the list of available nodes to execute containers.
note! Admin only operation

.B host [subscribe|unsubscribe] <hostname>
Marks the given host as elligible to serve containers for a given tennant (as
defined by the login credentials in the freight configuration

.B host list [tennant]
Querys the database to determine which hosts a tennant may use.  [tennant]
option is only required if the db admin is querying

.B repo [add|del] <name> <url>
Adds or removes a repository from the database for a given tennant

.B container [create] <cname> <iname> [chost]
Request the creation of a container <cname> with instance name <iname> on host <chost>.
Note that chost is optional, if left blank the freight-master process will be
notified to schedule a host on behalf of the tennant.  chost may also be the
reserved keyword all, which will cause all hosts belonging to the tennant to be
notified, and the first to respond will create the container.  Note that created
containers are created in the STAGED state, it is stared by issuing the boot
command below

.B container boot <iname>
Requests that the container named by <iname> be started.  Only containers in the
STAGED or FAILED state may be booted

.B container poweroff <iname>
Requests that the container named by <iname> be shutdown and returned to the
STAGED state.  On containers in the RUNNING state may be powered off

.B container [delete] <iname>
Deletes the requested container from the database.  Only containers in the
staged or failed state may be deleted.

.B container [list]
Lists the containers for the tennant and what state they are in

.B network [create] <name> <configuration>
Creates a networked named <name> with configuration supplied in the file named
by <configuration>.  For the configuration file format, see
freight-network-config

.B network [delete] <name>
Delete the named network from the cluster. No container may be using the named
network, or the delete operation will fail

.B network [list]
List the available networks for the tennant

.SH CONTAINER LIFE CYCLE
A container in freight as manged by freightctl exists in the following state table

.TS
allbox;
cb	cb	cb
.
CURRENT STATE	DESCRIPTION	NEXT STATES
STAGED	Container is created in DB	START-REQUESTED
START-REQUESTED	Container has been requested to boot	INSTALLING,RUNNING,FAILED
INSTALLING	Container image is downloading to agent system	RUNNING,FAILED
RUNNING	Container is operational	FAILED,EXITING
EXITING	Container is shutting down	FAILED,STAGED
FAILED	Container has encountered a failure	-
.TE
.SH CONFIG FILE FORMAT 

See the freight-agent man page for a description of the config file.  freghtctl
only uses the db section of the configuration

.SH
NOTES
freightctl has direct access to the freight database, and as such is completely
insecure, in that any tennant has access to other tennants information.  If you
wish to implement a production level multitennant environment, use a freight
front end to gate access to the cluster.
